Home page:

I am a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science and Cognitive Science at Tufts
University, advised by Matthias Scheutz and Dan Dennett. My research focuses on
computational approaches to understanding human intelligence and creativity. I
study how our drive to continually make sense of the world guides our
perception of it and our behavior in it. At the core of this capability lies a
vast store of hidden knowledge (social, causal etc.) that we bring to bear.  A better understanding
of how we use this knowledge to make sense of the world will help us design
more effective and more ethical artificial intelligence systems.

I previously received an M.S. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
from MIT and a J.D. from Boston University School of Law. Prior to coming to
Tufts, I was a lawyer and practiced Intellectual Property law for nearly a
decade at Ropes & Gray in Boston.

On the side, I enjoy drawing cartoons. Some of my work can be seen on Legally
Drawn, cartoons poking fun at law and lawyers. 


My Research. 

Our ability to quickly and continually make sense of the complex and
changing world around us is astounding. It is key to our intelligence and
creativity. We do not necessarily process each and
every thing we see or hear, but instead, try to understand what relevant tidbits of
information mean to us. However, it is challenging to know what information we
bring to bear and how exactly this information is used to establish meaning. It
is challenging because much of this information is elusive and hidden in our
collective minds. My research goal is to uncover the computational nature of
these hidden assumptions ("dark knowledge," (like dark matter)), and how we make
and break them. 

My research is motivated by three key questions:

1. How can these hidden assumptions be represented (in computational terms)
such that they can be learned flexibly in a variety of ways (incl. under
uncertainty) and invoked at a moment's notice?
2. What is the role of these hidden assumptions in sense-making? How are these
assumptions used to resolve perceptual (linguistic and visual) ambiguity and
assist with decision making and action-selection?
3. How do we know when these assumptions need to be broken and how do we break
them?  

AI has seen rapid progress in recent years, especially with the development of
new deep neural network architectures. However, despite these efforts,
there are many open questions about how to computationalize core human
intelligence capabilities of compositionality, non-monotonic reasoning with symbolic
knowledge, social intelligence and open-world discovery of new knowledge.
Central to my research has been the development and application of techniques
in knowledge representation and reasoning as well as in uncertainty processing
that have shown promise. These techniques help us elucidate the more abstract
computational principles associated with making and breaking assumptions that
are at play during sense-making. 

Key Results: 

1). Non-monotonic reasoning for language understanding
Traditionally, natural language processing (NLP) is thought of as a set of
processes arranged in a pipeline manner whereby syntactic properties are
extracted before semantics, which in turn occurs before pragmatics. However,
there has been some evidence in psycholinguistics as well as in cognitive
neuroscience of language to suggest that these processes might not be linear
and sequential in this manner. I have begun exploring how language
understanding (and particularly resolving linguistic ambiguity) can be achieved
by a more holistic constraint satisfaction process. My group has shown various
proof of concepts to suggest that this approach can help resolve pronouns and
indirect speech acts. 

Representative papers
- Anaphora
- ISA

2). Representing and reasoning with Social norms
There are nearly no human interactions that do not assume at least some amount
of social norms. But, what are these social norms, how are they represented and
how are they used? I explored how social norms are used when deciding how to
use objects (e.g., how to grab a knife when using it versus when passing it to
someone -- a situation where social safety norms apply) and showed how this
form of social intelligence can be computationalized. Social norms are one part
of the larger fabric of norm-related aspects that are highly pervasive in
human-human interaction. I showed that centuries old legal precedent can help
us categorize and organize our thinking about norms and provide some guidance
on how these legal principles can guide the development of more natural
human-robot interactions. At the core of social intelligence is the questions
of how norms are rperesented. I showed that human norms are context sensitive
and developed computational techniques for learning them under uncertainty.


Representative papers
- Affordance journal
- THRI
- Cog Sci

3). Creative problem solving
Humans can, with some mental effort, break their own assumptions allowing them
room to assimilate new knowledge and make new discoveries. The processes
underlying creative cognition remains largely unknown. There has been over a
century of psychology and neuroscience research in insight problem-solving,
attempting to understand how humans reframe problems or reconstruct their
mental representations. Modern AI systems are able to generate novel works of
art and music, but they cannot solve problems that require out-of-the-box
thinking. My group has begun making some early progress towards formalizing
creative problem solving computationally. Doing so has a two-fold benefit: (1)
allows us construct potentially solvable computer science problems, and (2)
provides a theoretical foundation for constructing stimuli for human-subject
experiments. 

Representative papers
- Macgyver acs
- Frontiers
- New AAAI

Details
Research Statement


